Hello.
Welcome back to the advanced course in our programming.
In the first tutorial we created our very first list as you can see it's a very interesting type of
data structure.
And today we're going to learn how to name components of a list.
So here we've got three components.
Right now they just have indices one two three and these double square brackets today is going to be
our transitional step in learning how to work with lists and we're going to learn how to name these
components.
So let's get straight into it.
All right so I'm going to just print out the list again.
There we go.
And now I'm going to check the names of list are all one very similar to how you check the names of
a named vector or how we check for a doorframe.
We check call names or roll names and or from Matrix as well.
So here we're just going to use names of lists or a one if I run that you'll see that it's no.
Meaning that it doesn't have a name is just using the default indexation 1 to 3.
So how do we set names.
Very simple.
We just use the same function and we just assign a vector to this function.
If you aren't in the basic course we discussed this this is quite an interesting feature of our that
you can actually not only get values out of functions so you parse a parameter into a function and then
you get a result like here we did.
But you can actually also sign something to a function and then it will alter this object that you are
passing to it.
So this is what we're going to do today and we want to name these.
So again name them.
Well here we're going to call this component.
We're going to call it machine.
This component we're going to call it stat's because it contains stats.
And this component we're going to call low threshold because it is telling us did this machine drop
under that law threshold.
It says go ahead and do that.
So just type it up your machine stats and low threshold.
All right so far on that no.
And I look at my list of 1 you'll see that it's changed instead of the double brackets one brackets
two de-lurk three we've got a dollar sign machine or Sandstad store sign a low threshold.
It's already kind of giving us some hints here on how we can access these elements and it will definitely
talk about that in the upcoming tutorial.
For now I just wanted to show you another way how you could have renamed or given names to elements
or components of this list.
So let's look at another way because we want to know everything we can about our like with doorframes
.
So similar how we could do this with our friends so let's remove I-List list are all one let's completely
remove it.
So if I check it now you'll see that we don't have that list anymore.
And what we want to do is we want to take a list of one so basically we want to just take this line
here that we had when we created the list.
And here as we created we can give names to the components so we can say machine.
And here you won't need the quotation marks so orwill Nunda will understand that this is the name of
the component stats and low threshold.
So if I run this now and I look at list are and 1 you'll see that it was already created with the correct
names.
So that's a great great easy little trick to save you some space.
Basically so and some coding so instead of just creating lists first and then assigning the names to
the components of the list you can assign the names of the components right away as creating a list
.
Now the question is of course why do we need these name named components.
Why why would somebody assign names to a component.
Well we'll see how handy this is how.
How much more convenient working with Lisp becomes when they have named components we'll see that in
the upcoming tutorials.
And that's all for today.
We had quite a quick tutorial.
Have a play around with that maybe try giving them some different names see see how you go that will
create a list of your own and see if you can create a named list right away.
And I look for in the next tutorial.
Until then happy coding